---
layout: default
title: Tankless Water Heater Notes
---
For a 2 bath house in San Jose, California, the Noritz NRCP928 seems like a good bet.  It should provide the gallons per minute based on these assumptions.

Average incoming water temperature? Searching around, I got something around 50F.  It's August on a warm day, the lowest I measured was about 60F.. Let's estimate the coldest will be 40F in the dead of winter.

The target temperature is 120F.

Low, average, high is 40F, 50F, 60F, respectively.

The temperature rise needed to hit the target is: 80F, 70F, 60F.

According to the chart on the spec sheet, http://support.noritz.com/download.php?file=Literature%20Page/Spec%20Sheet/NRCP982%20SPEC.pdf&field=SpecSheet
the gallons per minute will vary between 3.8gpm to 5.8gpm.

Given at a modern shower head flows a maximum of 2.0gpm, this will work fine even when it's winter.  It will probably handle two showers at once too.

Natural Gas:

PGE in their gas rules promises around 7 inches of water column and that's right in line with what the heater wants.

Gas pipe size chart

         8'5"(B)                         21'7"(A)
80k ---------------|----------------------------------------
                   |
                   |
                   |  17'3"(C)
                   |
                   |
                   200k
                   
                   
Max length rounds up to 40'
"A" sees 280k and needs to be 1 inch pipe.
"B" sees 80K and needs to be 1/2
"C" sees 200K and needs 1 inch.

(FOR GAS PRESSURES OF 0.5 PSI OR LESS AND A PRESSURE DROP OF 0.5-INCH WATER COLUMN)

Need to double check because each fitting is supposed to add 'length' to the total length.
